Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
Tellerik create compelling app experiences
across any screen with the
Tellerik platform Telerx end to
end platform. Uniquely combines industry
leading UI tools with cloud
services to simplify the entire
app development cycle Tellerik offers
everything.net developers need to build
quality apps faster. Try it
free at tellerik.com/platform that's tellerik.com/platform
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 51. In this
episode, Scott talks with graphic
novelist, software engineer and Eisner
award winner, gene yang about
computers, creativity, and comics. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today I'm talking
with gene yang. He is
an author and a writer
and a computer science teacher.
How are you? Good. Good.
Thank you for having me.
It's exciting to be here.
Absolutely. My pleasure. It's funny.
When you reached out to
talk to me about your,
your book that you're working
on, you, you were very
kind, you introduced yourself and
told me about your, I
knew all about you already,
because I was a fan
of a, of your book
and perhaps your most famous
book, American born Chinese. Yeah.
American born Chinese came out
in 2006. Now, when I
started that book, I'd been
doing comics for about five
years, but American born Chinese
was really the life changer.
It, it it's the reception
of that book was well
beyond anything I had imagined
possible. And it really, it
really changed things For me.
Is this one of those
examples of an overnight success
in a half a day?
Yeah, I guess so. I
guess so actually, you know,
cause I had been doing
comics for five years when
I started American born Chinese.
It took me five years
to do that book. So
by the time it came
out, I'd been in comics
for like 10 years. So
had been a full decade
before, before that book came
out, When that book came
out, was it something where
it happened organically? Because I
wonder sometimes like, are their
press people telling everyone about
your book or it's just
one of those things where
word of mouth happens? You
know, I am not totally
sure. So American born Chinese
was the very first book
that was published by my
current publisher. First second books,
which is a subset of
Macmillan. It's like an imprint
of Macmillan, one of the
major book publishers in the
world. And, and they are
very connected in to these
three different markets for comics.
So comics traditionally in America
have always been sold through
comic book stores. And then
within the last couple of
decades, they've started getting sold
in, in regular bookstores and
also to the library market.
So because of, of, of
where for second sits within
the marketplace, they have connections
to the comic book stores
to the regular bookstores until
the library market. And I
think that really helped me.
I think that helped me
tremendously. The, one of the
things that I've noticed, that's,
it's fairly obvious within the
themes of your book and
the, in the cover art
there's this sense of the,
and people will see this,
they can look in the
show notes, you see half
of the protagonists face, one
of the covers for American
born Chinese. You just see
the one side of the
person's face and another, but
two books, series, boxers and
saints. You have you, can
you see the half of
their face what's going on
there? Yeah, well I have
to be honest, that was
not my decision. I did
work with the designer on,
on those book covers, but
I am a terrible designer,
you know, I think I'm
okay at cartooning. I am
terrible as a graphic designer.
So for American born Chinese,
I worked with his very
talented designer named Danica Gorbachev.
Who's also a cartoonist herself.
She can do both, whereas
I can't and it was
her idea to do, to
do half the face. And
I think the idea behind
that was the book is
really about a negotiation of
identities and, and, and for
a lot of immigrants, kids,
it's, it's about taking two
halves of yourself and trying
to mesh them together, especially
when those two halves don't
always fit together. Well, you
know, and, and for, for
boxers and saints, because American
born Chinese had been so
well received. The idea behind
that book was to have
some kind of a recall
to American born Chinese so
people could see it and
tell that it was from
the same author. The, the
woman who designed that book
is named Coleen F Annabelle.
And she's the, both of
them, both Danica and Coleen
are absolutely amazing designers. I
was very lucky to have
them on my project. Yeah,
it's, it's a, it's a
very evocative way of expressing
what's going on here. You
know, it makes it really
clear that this is a
story about, you know, about
really that kind of a
number two it's it's there's,
there's multiple, there's two tales.
There's the second generation, there's
two halves, you know, it
was very dramatic in, in
boxers and saints and you
were kind enough to send
me a copy of that.
I've been sharing with my
sons. Thank you for reading
it. Yeah, absolutely. The, the
boxers boxers and saints tells
two sides of the boxer
rebellion during the Ching dynasty.
And I noticed that you
started to explore historical themes
in order to kind of
better understand yourself. It seems
like. I think so. I
mean, I first gotten interested
in the boxer rebellion in
the year 2000 that year,
Pope John Paul, the second canonized,
a group of Chinese Catholic
saints. And I grew up
in this Chinese American Catholic
community in the Bay area,
in the San Francisco Bay
area. My home church flipped
out about this cause this
is the first time, you
know, that the Roman Catholic
church, this deeply Western institution
had acknowledged Chinese citizens in
this way. And when I
looked into the lives of
these canonized saints, I discovered
that many of them were
murdered during the boxer rebellion
during this war that was
fought over a hundred years
ago in China. And I
barely remembered about the boxer
rebellion from high school history.
You know, I remember just
bits and pieces. I think
that's true for most American
students. We don't hear much
about the bucks rebelling, but
the more I studied this
war and the more I
realized that it really, it
really embodied this tension between
Eastern and Western ways of
being and thinking that I
felt in my own life
as a, as an Asian
American. And that's what I,
I just think that all
of my projects are kind
of ways of exploring my
own neuroses or the tensions
within my own life. That
may be, I think that's
probably true for every artist.
You know, that's part of
the reason why we do
our self therapy. Yeah. I
think every good artist is
neurotic and that drives them.
And it's also, but it's
also a sense of self
exploration. Yeah. Yeah. It is.
It is. Yeah. What exactly
am I doing here? And
it's interesting that this is
a Chinese Catholicism versus the
kind of traditional Chinese that
there's a duality there. Yeah.
There's the immigrant story and,
you know, being, how can
you be fully 100% American
and fully 100% Chinese at
the same time. Yeah. Yeah.
I think that is, I
also think, you know, in
the modern world, this tension
between identities is becoming more
and more of a thing,
not just for immigrant kids,
but, but just in general,
I think, I think computer
technology and social media have
really introduced this idea. You
know, most of us have
at least two identities. We
have the identity that we
are when we interact with
people face to face. And
then we have this other
identity that is often separate
that we maintain online. And
unfortunately, I feel like these
days people have forgetting who
they are because they are
so focused on trying to
be someone else, whether it
be Facebook likes or someone,
someone told me about this,
very, but not, not what's
the not neurotic, isn't the
word, but it's very narcissistic
idea of, you know, I've
gone to the top of
the mountain, I'm at the
top of the Himalayas selfie
and then, you know, hashtag
peaceful. And it's just like,
wow, what, what a horrible
way to be? How do
we teach our kids about
the past and not, not
focusing on that kind of
quick. Yeah, I have to
tell ya. I agree that
it's horrible, but I also
deeply feel that temptation, you
know, I think, I think
I have to force myself
these days to be present,
to be present in my,
in my body, as opposed
to just in my mind,
in the screen. I I've
noticed when I hang out
with my kids, you know,
sometimes I'll like have the
impulse to take a picture
of them as opposed to
just look at them with
my own two eyes. It's
kind of a thing. I,
it's kind of a thing
that I struggle with nowadays.
Yeah. That is a challenge.
And, and I think it's,
it is only going to
continue the more, the more
computerized the things get. And
you probably see this because
now, even though you are
a successful and a very
well thought of artist and
writer, you are still teaching
high school. Is that true?
I am. I am. I
teach at Bishop O'Dowd high
school, which is a Catholic
school in Oakland, California. I've
been there since 1998. So
I've been there forever. I've
been there a long, long
time. I started off as
a, as a full time
teacher. I've taught mostly computer
science there. I've taught a
little bit of math and
a little bit of art,
but mostly computer science. And
nowadays I'm down to just
one class. I have one
class of introductory computer science.
I used to also teach
the AP class, but as
my life has gotten busy,
I've had to give that
up. So you've got an
interesting perspective kind of if
historically, you've been doing this
now, what, how many years
is that? 16 years. Yeah.
It's a long time. 16,
17 years. Yeah. It's been
kind of crazy. Yeah. When
I started teaching, I was
teaching Pascal Pascal. I liked
turbo Pascal or Delphi. It
was, I think it was
turbo. I think it was
turbo. It was, I only
did it for a year.
I only did it for
a year. And then we
switched over to C plus
plus I did that for
a number of years and
now we're on Java. And
so you've got a, an
interesting historical context cause you've
watched a bunch of different
high schoolers change technologies. You've
watched the technology world change.
You've watched the rise of
social media. You could probably
tell what was a 15
year old, like in 98
versus a 15 year old
today. Very different concerns. Yeah,
it really is. It really
is. When, you know, one
of the big differences I've
noticed with my students is
their desire to drive. You
know, when I first got
there, the kids were like
me, when I was a
teenager, they desperately wanted their
driver's licenses. And now I
feel like that desire has
kind of a rapper rated.
And I wonder if like,
like most of my students
now, they don't mind not
getting their driver's licenses as
soon as they turn 16,
you know, some of them
don't ever want it ever.
And I wonder if that
has something to do with
the internet and how available
things become through the internet
for us back in the
day, if I wanted comic
books, I had to drive
the little complex store. Now
it is, I can just
download a comic book from
Comixology. Yeah. That, that, you
know, it's interesting. You're the,
you're now the second person
in two weeks to say
that. And the first person
said that I was like,
no, that can't be right.
And now it's been confirmed
scientifically because you've said it
to people because two people
have said it. So it's
now it's a thing. And
that's really true. All I
wanted to do in the
late eighties was drive because
it being anywhere, but here.
Yeah. And it's a freedom,
but I feel like maybe,
maybe the internet gives us
that same sort of freedom
as, as driving used to.
And I used to drive
to the comic book store
and I used to have
a box at the comic
bookstore. That's right. A pull
list. That's right Now you're
working on a new book.
I gotta understand that you're
just getting started and it's
still going. It's going to
be awhile before this comes
out. It's called secret coders.
It'll be out next September.
And the way the book
world works is you finish
a book and then almost
a year later it'll come
out. So I finished writing
it. I'm working with this
amazing cartoonist named Mike Holmes. So
I have some books where
I do both the writing
and the drawing. This is
a project where I'm only
doing the writing and Mike
is doing the drawing. He's
probably most well known for
his work on bravest warriors.
Have you ever seen that
show? Yeah, there's a comic
that goes along with it.
And Mike was the primary
illustrator on that comic for,
for awhile now. That's great.
The bravest warriors was a,
was a three, three seasons
of bravest Wars. I think
so I think so it
was the same guy who
it was created by the
same guy who did a
adventure time. Pendleton ward. Yeah,
that's right. Andy and Mike
worked with Pendleton on, on
this comic, but he's, he's
just, he's phenomenal. He's phenomenal.
Secret coders kind of represents
the coming together of my
two worlds. I began drawing
comics and I began programming
both in the fifth grade,
you know? And then in
college I majored in computer
science and I minored in
creative writing. My creative writing
minor was all about eventually
writing comic books and all
the way through. I've always
wanted to bring these two
things together, but they never
quite fit until now. So
secret coders is a, is
a, is a series of
graphic novels meant for middle
school kids, kids in fifth,
sixth, seventh grade, all about
coding. And the way we're
pitching it is we're saying
that it's a lot like
Harry Potter, you know, in Harry Potter,
a bunch of tween kids
find this secret school that
teaches the magic zone. Our
story, a bunch of twin
kids find the secret school,
but the secret school, instead
of teaching magic teaches coding.
And we're hoping that as
the readers follow our protagonists
through their journey, into becoming
coders, that they themselves will
become coders as well. I've
always thought that people who,
who never learned to code,
whether it be, you know,
I don't know if you
have this situation where maybe
your neighbors aren't a hundred
percent sure what you do,
but they know that you're
kind of a nerd. So
you may be at like
the local homeowners association and
then you'll have a conversation
with someone you've just met
and they'll go, Oh, you're
a computer person. And then
immediately you've become Other. Yeah,
yeah. Yeah. Well, you know,
gene knows the mysteries of
secret coding and I, I'll
never be one of those
people and they've simultaneously set
you apart, but they've also
basically disempowered themselves because they've
just declared that they'll never
be a programmer. They'll never
understand computers. Yeah, that's right.
That's right. And what they
don't realize is that the,
the, the building blocks of
coding are very, very simple.
You know, it's really all
about building these incredibly complex
things with very simple pieces.
And, and I really, I
firmly believe, I don't believe
that everybody should be a
professional coder, but I do
believe that every single human
being ought to learn a
little bit of coding sometime
during their education. I just
think it's no matter what
you do as an adult,
you are going to come
into contact with coders. You
know, you're going to have
to learn to communicate with
coders and having a basic
understanding of that discipline is
just so important. Right. And
it's not necessarily going out
to the command prompt. I
think it's, it's four loops
and it's the basics. It
might be an Excel macro.
Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Just
mastering those three basic control
structures and figuring out how
to, I mean, it's really
about logic, right. And I
think when I was in,
when I was in fifth
grade and I first learned
coding, it was in logo.
You remember logo? I went
on an Apple too. I
think you and I are
the same age. Yeah, that's
right. I learned them on
an Apple too as well.
And that's actually the language
that, that they learned in
secret coders too. I'm using
logo, not just because I
have a deep, you know,
pre logical love of it,
but also because nowadays it
has this weird ancient mystique
to it, you know, it's
kind of slightly forgotten. You
just said we were ancient.
Yeah. We kind of are
though. We kind of are,
especially in computer years, we
absolutely are. But what fascinated
me about logo is it
was like magic. You take
these very simple commands and
you get a picture out
of it, you know, and
there's something magic about translating
words into something visual or
into, into something that's active.
I don't know if you
have this in your logo
class, but in the, in
the eighties, when I was
doing that, just like we
have Arduinos and robot kits,
you know, today they would
give us a big, giant
long 25 pin ribbon cable.
That was probably, Oh gosh,
you know, 10, 15 feet
long. And we would plug
in a robot and a
Sharpie and we would take
our logo and we'd drive
it around on a piece
of butcher paper. And really
the only thing that's changed
in 25 years is Bluetooth
and wifi. But it's fundamentally
the same idea is there.
Yeah. I was not lucky
enough to have a mechanical
turtle. The turtles that I
used were all on screen,
all on screen, but I
saw pictures, you know, they
had photos of the mechanical
turtles in our textbooks and
I was always very jealous
of the kids that kind
of, We only had the
one and we were told
to be very careful. We
also only had the one
Apple two as well. Yeah.
One of the things that
I think is an interesting
parallel, you pointed out that
secret coders is kind of
like Harry Potter is I feel
that it's these themes of
growing up and feeling disempowered.
I mean, Harry started out
feeling like all power was
taken away from him. His,
his adoptive parents took all
his power away and then
he discovered his power. Yeah.
Yeah. What I, what I
tell my students is that,
you know, often the best
coders are people who are
kind of control freaks because
when you're, when you're knee
deep in a program, you
have full control over it.
You have control over the
design and the execution. And,
and there's something very empowering
about that. I see that
with my students as well.
I think, I think coding
has a way of bringing
out a certain aspect of
personality with some of my
students. Some of my students
who are very quiet, who
may not necessarily feel engaged
in their other subjects. When
they sit down in front
of a computer, when they're
in this environment where they
have full control, it really
brings out something in them.
And it's great to see.
It's really empowering to see
there's that programmers high that
you get, right? When you,
when you crack a program,
when you, when you figure
out a very elegant way
of, of, of solving a
problem, you get this little
rush. And, and that's what
I like to see as
a teacher in my students.
I, I, A little frustrated
sometimes when I meet kids
that I, I, I feel
like if you would just
listen, maybe this is for
you. And, but they've already
decided at some point in
their growing up that not,
I'm not a computer person,
like we've already determined this
at age eight or age
nine. They it's, the whole
kind of math is hard
myth. The first time a
kid says that you've got
a couple of minutes to
get in there and say,
no, no, no, we can
make this fun for you.
But if, if they've internalized
that tape and started replaying
it, then they'll never get
back Then it's yeah, it's
kind of harder. And I
think what they don't realize
is there are lots of
different ways of being a
computer person. There's not just
one way, you know, there's,
there's, there's hardware, there's software.
There's. I mean, you can,
you can be a computer
person and only be into
Photoshop. It's Photoshop is such
a deep tool, you know?
And, and there are so,
so many ways of applying
a programmer's mindset to what
you do in Photoshop. And
the same can be said
of almost any other application
out there. There's lots of
ways of being a computer
person. I think you just,
you just totally opened my,
you just totally opened my
mind there for a second,
because it's one of those
amazing and obvious statements that
you just said, like, you
could be a computer person,
you could be a programmer.
And the app that you
program is Photoshop. You're, you
know, making a cause you
can make in Photoshop, you
know, effects that are layered
on top of each other,
you can program it and
then built and then hand
them to someone and say,
here's my effects pack. Or
even simply building actions within,
within a photo And distributing
actions. I actually, for this
podcast, when we're done, I
will ask you for a
headshot that I'll put on
the website, and then I
will run an Instagram of
fi action in Photoshop that
I didn't write. And even
though I've been programming for
20 years, I have no
idea how it works And
it doesn't matter. It's a
black box to you. It's
magic. Yeah, that's right. Yeah.
It's magic. But it is
going to give me a
level of power that I
did not have before I
learned how to do actions
in, in Photoshop. So you
said that you are teaching
only a class now, is
that something that you're going
to give up or are
you hanging on to that
last class? Cause you don't
want to give it up?
I love, I love education.
You know, I think I'm
just as much of a
teacher as I am a
cartoonist, if not more so,
so I hope to be
involved in education for as
long as I can, you
know, for all of my
career that could change that,
that the format of that
could change. But I hope
to be involved at least
in some way, the program
class, isn't the only place
where I teach. I also
teach creative writing through Hamlin
university, which is based out
of Minnesota. I teach through
their online program. It's an
MFA program focusing on writing
for children and young adults.
So most of the faculty
are novelists and poets and
picture book writers. I'm the
only comic book guy, but
it's, I've been doing that
for three years. Most of
my teaching there is online
and it's been amazing. Do
you think you would self
identify primarily as a teacher?
Maybe, I guess it depends
on who I'm talking to.
You know, I guess when
I fill out what I
felt at legal forums, I'll
always write down on my
teacher. I think writing down
that I'm a cartoon, this
is a little bit harder
to explain. That'd be pretty
cool to be able to
say to the IRS job
cartoonist. And there are people
who do that. There are
people who do that. Yeah.
Yeah. I, I kind of
came to terms with this
idea that I was a
teacher and I went and
updated my resume and all
that kind of stuff a
couple of years back because
well, people see me as
a programmer. Ultimately, whether I
am actively teaching, I either
wish I was teaching, you
know, hope I was teaching
aim to teach at some
point in the future or
in everything that I do.
There should be an element
of teaching. Yeah. I think
I see that with Lister
joining with the, with this
podcast and with your blog,
I think there's definitely a
teaching element to all that.
Yeah. I definitely felt like
particularly the book, boxers and
saints while my wife was
a fellow was a little
violent for the kids. My
kids are seven and nine.
Well, we skipped over a
few, a few headings, but
what was interesting about it
was it really started to
bring up a conversation with
my nine year old, particularly
about fiction versus nonfiction because
he had decided in his
mind that fiction was the
only good thing in the
world because it was, you
know, kind of infinitely interesting.
And you could always do
things, but he didn't really
get a sense of the
scope of the past. So
then we started talking about
the boxer rebellion and how
long ago it was and
how this was fictional story
about a nonfiction thing. That
duality was really interesting and
it got him very interested
in history. Oh good. That's
great. That's great. I have
a son he's 11 now,
but he was nine when
I finished the book and
I didn't let him read
it because of the violence,
but he snuck it away
from me. You know what?
I had my proof sitting
on my desk and he
just stuck the whole thing
away from me. You read
the whole thing. He's like,
dad, it's not that bad.
What's wrong. But, but I,
you know, historical fiction is
something that I'm very interested
in nowadays. And I think
it really can serve as
this on-ramp to, to just
plain old nonfiction, which is
also something I think most
of my reading nowadays is
the nonfiction. But, but I,
I think that's something very
important for kids to realize
is that often the best
stories actually happen. They actually
happened in the past. Yeah.
I think that that's so
important for kids to understand
that, that historical context. And
I have tried to apply
that in everything that I
do, you were saying how
you taught Pascal for a
while there, maybe you don't
teach it anymore, but I'll
that when you do talk
about computer science, from what
I've learned about you today,
you probably talk about the
historical context and, you know,
see an assembler come up
and like, well, why did
they do that in the
sixties? And Yeah, we do
talk a little bit about
that. About like, in my
introduction to Java, we talk
about what the reasoning behind
the Java virtual machine is
and what, what problem that
was supposed to solve. I
don't know how that goes
across with the students, but
It's funny, like when you
do end up talking to
kids about the, you know,
the history, their eyes kind
of glaze over, but I've
always had this theory that
if I can just get
that one or that two,
like I'll be in a
room of 30 kids. I
do an exploring engineering class
at the local community college.
And I just keep looking
for a face to light
up because even though I'm
not going to get all
30 of them. Oh, he,
he got it. Oh, she
got it. Okay. Now I'm
going to look at YouTube
because something just clicked and
you're going to go home
and take apart your toaster.
Yeah, that's right. That's the
teacher's high right there. That
little click is the teacher's
high. You know, now in
talking to you, I wonder
if I should, I should
put my discussion on the
push my discussion on the
Java virtual machine a little
bit further back, because I
wonder if, I think what
interests us is when we
talk about history in relation
to ourselves, you know, and
the Java virtual machine and
the problem that that's supposed
to solve, that's something that
maybe you need to experience
as a coder before you
can really appreciate what sun
was trying to do. Well,
I've always believed that when
teaching there needs to be
an element of, of suffering,
not capital. That's great. Yeah.
That's a great, great way.
You know, before, like I'll
give you a couple of
examples that I use in
my class. My son wants
a digital watch. You can't
have a digital watch until
you learn to do an
analog watch because you're going
to suffer first. And then
I will tell you what,
and it does digital watch
works. When he learns how
to drive presuming he does
want to learn how to
drive. He will drive a
stick because you got to
drive a stick because you
learn how the car works.
Otherwise you're going to be,
and I always make my
dad said, otherwise, someone's gonna
break their leg. You're gonna
have to drive them to
the hospital. The only car
available is a stick. It's
going to lose his leg.
Yeah, that's great. I have
to tell you, I learned
on an automatic. My wife
taught me how to drive
a stick. Do you know
though? And that's good. I'm
glad that you finally learned
how to do that. And
I think that, you know,
if you're going to get
memory management and a virtual
machine, well, you need to
first tidy up your own
memory, you know, before we
get someone to clean your
room, you need to clean
your own room. Yeah, that's
right. That's fine. I like
to say that we are
abstracting on this show on
the shoulders of giants. Yeah.
That's a, that's, that's a
great way of putting it
too. I think that, I
think that knowledge has kind
of just built that way.
Right? Everything that, you know,
everything that you come up
with is built on the
work of somebody else. And
I feel like that's true
of programmers and cartoonists that
the language that we use
in modern cartooning is built
on things that people invented
a century ago. Do you
explore that with him? Wasn't
there a really, there was
a, there was a book
about cartooning. It was it's
of like considered like the
book, Understanding comics by Scott
McCloud. That book I read
when I was just finishing
up my teenage years. And
I feel like if I
did not read that book,
I would not be drawing
comics today. That book blew
my mind. Yeah. It, it,
I, I kind of suspected
as much because there's, there's
elements that I wouldn't say
tropes because that's trope is
become a negative word, but
there are, there are thematic
and dramatic elements and how
you use white space and
the edge of the frame.
And I'm assuming this is
a collaboration with you and
whatever artists that you're working
with on the book that
you're working on, because there's
an evocative sense of like,
this is what this frame
needs to make the person
feel. Absolutely. Absolutely. And you're
drawing on, on established language,
right? So we we've had
over a century of modern
cartooning and, and like what
word balloons mean? What certain
fonts mean, what certain colors
mean? All of that is
sort of an established tradition.
So when I make a
comic, I am both trying
to respect things that have
come before me and hopefully
maybe pushing into some new
territory as well. I think
that's true of any modern,
cartoonist understanding comics by Scott
McCloud. Scott McCloud is like,
I, I feel like for
him, he sort of sits
in that in between space
to between computers and, and
or technology and comics. His
dad was a physicist and
he has a very, very
technical mind. Scott has a
very technical mind. He approaches
comics in this very technical
way, which I think really
appealed to me too, as,
as a computer nerd and
a, and a comic book
nerd. Why do you think
that what he's done with
exploring comics is easy. He's
pulled out all of the,
kind of the, the, the,
the essence of it. He's
nailed it down to like,
this is modern 20th century
comics A little bit. Yeah.
He's begun the discussion on
it. I think, I think
that, you know, in the
same way, in the same
way that a language, a
programming language is defined by
these very, very basic commands.
And that's what he did.
He, he came up with
the very basic commands that
make up the comics line.
Right. Right. I think that,
I don't know if this
is a weak parallel. What
I also think about like
how, when Joseph Campbell kind of
pulled out the hero's journey,
and then you say, look
at star Wars. This is,
this is the Greek mythology
here. Here's the hero's journey.
And this is again, the
word trope gets overused, but
these are the tools that
we use to tell a
compelling narrative. Yeah. Yeah. I
think it's exactly that. I
think it's exactly that. And
I think that that's maybe
why that's one of the
things that attracts me to
both of these disciplines, to
both comics and coding is
that in both of these
disciplines, you take very simple
pieces and you build, you
can build very, very complex
things with them to the
point where, when you're looking
at the final complexity, it's
very difficult to see the
simple pieces that underneath, right.
That's something magic. Think of
that, that comics. And also
people say graphic novels as
a way of somehow like
legitimizing comments, You know, what
do you say to a
parent who might be listening?
Who's like, you know, I
don't really want my kid
reading. X-Men. I mean, this
is not really a legitimate
art form. This is not
a book. Well, I have
to say that that graphic
novel the term, it's a
very clunky term. It's not
awesome because it's a lot
of the things that we
call graphic novels these days
are not actually novels. We
call collections of short stories,
told in comics form graphic
novels. We call nonfiction comics,
graphic novels. But at the
same time, that term graphic
novel has done its job.
The legend is that it
was come up with, by,
by a guy named will
Eisner, a cartoonist who did
a, a strip called the
spirit in the 1940s. Well,
Isaiah is incredibly incredibly influential
within American comics. He's one
of the first guys to
bring cinematic storytelling techniques into,
into American comics. In the
1970s, he came up with
these short stories that were
based on his own childhood.
He grew up in this
Jewish neighborhood in New York. And
when he tried to sell
it, he would tell publishers,
you know, I have this
collection of short stories about
these Jewish kids and it's
told in comic format and
nobody wanted it. And then
he started saying, you know,
I have this graphic novel
about this, these Jewish kids
growing up in New York. And
he was able to pick
up a publisher. So from
the beginning, graphic novels has
been this way of separating
comics from like the, the
biases and the stereotypes that
the American audience has of
the, of the medium and
will Eisner is who the
Eisner award was named for.
And exactly American born Chinese.
If I remember correctly won
the Eisner award and yeah,
that's right. That was, it
was a crazy night. It
was a crazy night. I
got to shake Neil Gaiman's
hand. He was the one
that presented it to me.
It was awesome. That's amazing.
Yeah. Yeah. It was, it
was pretty amazing. It was
pretty amazing. So people can
go to gene yang.com. They
can learn about your comics
events. You do go to
comic con. Sometimes people can
meet you. I go almost
every year. That's right. That's
very exciting. And people may
see you in places that
they might not expect. Like,
for example, you did the
comics continuation of the Nickelodeon
cartoon avatar. So if your
kids love avatar, this could
be an OnRamp into the
world of gene yang. Have
you seen that show avatar
last Airbender? My kids love
it. They're absolutely obsessed. Yeah.
It's been a thrill to
work on that. I was
just a fan. When the,
when the show was airing
on Nickelodeon, I was just
the fan, you know, and
I remember the very last
episode, Zuko confronts his dad
and goes what happened to
my mother? And then the
scene cuts. And I freaked
out, like, why don't you
tell us? And to think
that, you know, three years
later, I'm part of the
team that's answering that question.
It's been, it's been a
really amazing, that's amazing. That's
amazing. Folks can also keep
an eye out for secret
coders. It's coming out next
year. And if, if you'll
come back on the show
closer to the release in
September of 2015, I would
love to have you back.
I would love to be
back. Thank you, Scott. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .